# [Cyber Security 101](https://tryhackme.com/path/outline/cybersecurity101)

# 1-Start Your Cyber Security Journey     
## Offensive Security Intro

<details>
<summary>What is Offensve Security?</summary>

  - [ ] "Offensive Security." It involves breaking into computer systems, exploiting software bugs, and finding loopholes in applications to gain unauthorized access.
  - [ ] The goal is to understand hacker tactics and enhance our system defences.

</details>

<details>
<summary>Using Gobuster To Find Hidden Website Pages</summary>

  - [ ] used to brute-force a website to find hidden directories and pages.
  - [ ] Gobuster will take a list of potential page or directory names and try accessing a website with each of them; if the page exists, it tells you.

  ```sh
  gobuster -u http://fakebank.thm -w wordlist.txt dir
  ```
  - [ ] -u is used to state the website we're scanning
  - [ ] -w takes a list of words to iterate through to find hidden pages.

</details>

## Defensive Security Intro

<details>
<summary>What is Defensive Security?</summary>

  It is concerned with two main tasks:
  
  - [ ]  Preventing intrusions from occurring
  - [ ]  Detecting intrusions when they occur and responding properly

  What is a SOC?
  - [ ] A Security Operations Center (SOC) is a team of cyber security professionals that monitors the network and its systems to detect malicious cyber security events. 
  - [ ] Vulnerabilities: Whenever a system vulnerability (weakness) is discovered, it is essential to fix it by installing a proper update or patch. When a fix is unavailable, the necessary measures should be taken to prevent an attacker from exploiting it. Although remediating vulnerabilities is vital to a SOC, it is not necessarily assigned to them.
  - [ ] Policy violations: A security policy is a set of rules required to protect the network and systems. For example, it might be a policy violation if users upload confidential company data to an online storage service.
  - [ ] Unauthorized activity: Consider the case where a user’s login name and password are stolen, and the attacker uses them to log into the network. A SOC must detect and block such an event as soon as possible before further damage is done.
  - [ ] Network intrusions: No matter how good your security is, there is always a chance for an intrusion. An intrusion can occur when a user clicks on a malicious link or when an attacker exploits a public server. Either way, when an intrusion occurs, we must detect it as soon as possible to prevent further damage.

</details>

<details>
<summary>What is Threat Intelligence?</summary>

  - [ ]  Intelligence refers to information you gather about actual and potential enemies.
  - [ ]  A threat is any action that can disrupt or adversely affect a system.
  - [ ]  Threat intelligence collects information to help the company better prepare against potential adversaries. The purpose would be to achieve a threat-informed defence. 

</details>

<details>
<summary>What is Digital Forensics and Incident Response (DFIR)? </summary>

  - [ ] Digital Forensics is the application of science to investigate crimes and establish facts. With the use and spread of digital systems, such as computers and smartphones, a new branch of forensics was born to investigate related crimes: computer forensics, which later evolved into digital forensics.
  - [ ] An incident usually refers to a data breach or cyber attack; however, in some cases, it can be something less critical, such as a misconfiguration, an intrusion attempt, or a policy violation. Examples of a cyber attack include an attacker making our network or systems inaccessible, defacing (changing) the public website, and data breach (stealing company data). How would you respond to a cyber attack? Incident response specifies the methodology that should be followed to handle such a case. The aim is to reduce damage and recover in the shortest time possible. Ideally, you would develop a plan that is ready for incident response.

  Digital forensics will focus on different areas, such as:
  - [ ] File System: Analyzing a digital forensics image (low-level copy) of a system’s storage reveals much information, such as installed programs, created files, partially overwritten files, and deleted files.
  - [ ] System memory: If the attacker runs their malicious program in memory without saving it to the disk, taking a forensic image (low-level copy) of the system memory is the best way to analyze its contents and learn about the attack.
  - [ ] System logs: Each client and server computer maintains different log files about what is happening. Log files provide plenty of information about what happened on a system. Even if the attacker tries to clear their traces, some traces will remain.
  - [ ] Network logs: Logs of the network packets that have traversed a network would help answer more questions about whether an attack is occurring and what it entails.

The four major phases of the incident response process are:
  - [ ] Preparation: This requires a team trained and ready to handle incidents. Ideally, various measures are put in place to prevent incidents from happening in the first place.
  - [ ] Detection and Analysis: The team has the necessary resources to detect any incident; moreover, it is essential to analyze any detected incident further to learn about its severity.
  - [ ] Containment, Eradication, and Recovery: Once an incident is detected, it is crucial to stop it from affecting other systems, eliminate it, and recover the affected systems. For instance, when we notice that a system is infected with a computer virus, we would like to stop (contain) the virus from spreading to other systems, clean (eradicate) the virus, and ensure proper system recovery.
  - [ ] Post-Incident Activity: After a successful recovery, a report is produced, and the lesson learned is shared to prevent similar future incidents.

</details>

<details>
<summary>What is Malware Analysis?</summary>
Malware stands for malicious software. Software refers to programs, documents, and files you can save on a disk or send over the network. Malware includes many types, such as:

  - [ ] A virus is a piece of code (part of a program) that attaches itself to a program. It is designed to spread from one computer to another and works by altering, overwriting, and deleting files once it infects a computer. The result ranges from the computer becoming slow to unusable.
  - [ ] Trojan Horse is a program that shows one desirable function but hides a malicious function underneath. For example, a victim might download a video player from a shady website that gives the attacker complete control over their system.
  - [ ] Ransomware is a malicious program that encrypts the user’s files. Encryption makes the files unreadable without knowing the encryption password. The attacker offers the user the encryption password if the user is willing to pay a “ransom.”

Malware analysis aims to learn about such malicious programs using various means:

  - [ ] Static analysis works by inspecting the malicious program without running it. This usually requires solid knowledge of assembly language (the processor’s instruction set, i.e., the computer’s fundamental instructions).
  - [ ] Dynamic analysis works by running the malware in a controlled environment and monitoring its activities. It lets you observe how the malware behaves when running.

</details>

## Search Skills


# 2-Linux Fundamentals
  Linux Fundamentals Part 1](#)
  Linux Fundamentals Part 2](#)
  Linux Fundamentals Part 3](#)
# 3-Windows and AD Fundamentals
  Windows Fundamentals 1](#)
  Windows Fundamentals 2](#)
  Windows Fundamentals 3](#)
  Active Directory Basics](#)
# 4-Command Line
  Windows Command Line](#)
  Windows PowerShell](#)
  Linux Shells](#)
# 5-Networking
  Networking Concepts](#)
  Networking Essentials](#)
  Networking Core Protocols](#)
  Networking Secure Protocols](#)
  Wireshark: The Basics](#)
  Tcpdump: The Basics](#)
  Nmap: The Basics](#)
# 6-Cryptography
  Cryptography Basics](#)
  Public Key Cryptography Basics](#)
  Hashing Basics](#)
  John the Ripper: The Basics](#)
# 7-Exploitation Basics
  Moniker Link (CVE-2024-21413)](#)
  Metasploit: Introduction](#)
  Metasploit: Exploitation](#)
  Metasploit: Meterpreter](#)
  Blue](#)
# 8-Web Hacking
  Web Application Basics](#)
  JavaScript Essentials](#)
  SQL Fundamentals](#)
  Burp Suite: The Basics](#)
  OWASP Top 10 - 2021](#)
# 9-Offensive Security Tooling
  Hydra](#)
  Gobuster: The Basics](#)
  Shells Overview](#)
  SQLMap: The Basics](#)
# 10-Defensive Security
  Defensive Security Intro](#)
  SOC Fundamentals](#)
  Digital Forensics Fundamentals](#)
  Incident Response Fundamentals](#)
  Logs Fundamentals](#)
# 11-Security Solutions
  Introduction to SIEM](#)
  Firewall Fundamentals](#)
  IDS Fundamentals](#)
  Vulnerability Scanner Overview](#)
# 12-Defensive Security Tooling
  CyberChef: The Basics](#)
  CAPA: The Basics](#)
  REMnux: Getting Started](#)
  FlareVM: Arsenal of Tools](#)
# 13-Build Your Cyber Security Career
  Security Principles](#)
  Careers in Cyber](#)
  Training Impact on Teams](#)



